ifluatex:       provides \ifluatex (gen, *tex)
ifpdf:          provides \ifpdf (gen, *tex)

luatexbase:     resource management (gen, luatex)
luatex:         resource managment (gen, luatex)
                luatexbase and luatex are to be merged somehow

luaextra:       Lua utilities (lua, luatex)
luatextra:      loads luaextra+luatexbase+luaotfload; goodies (gen, luatex)
xltxtra:        loads basics & fontspec; goodies & patches (ltx, xetex)
                Plan: extend it to luatex, maybe merge luatextra in later.

luainputenc:    input encoding & compat for fontenc (ltx, luatex)
                Plan: add more modes, inc. one without active chars.
luamplib:       mplip user-level support (gen, luatex)

luaotfload:     low-level otf management (gen, luatex)
fontspec:       user-level font management (ltx, xetex, luatex)
microtype:      microtypography (ltx, pdftex, luatex partially)
                Robert working on extending luatex support.
                May partially overlap with luaotfload; yet to be decided.

euenc:          Unicode font encodings (ltx, xetex, luatex)
                Includes a stripped down fork of xunicode:  euxunicode.
xunicode:       convert usual CS like \' to Unicode (?) (ltx, xetex)
                Could be used with luatex, but checks for xetex only.
                Forked by Khaled to modify the check, is this fork active?

luacolor:       Colors via attributes (ltx, luatex)
                luaotfload handle font color, this one is more general
                how do they interact?

luadirections:  Higher-level interface for directions (gen, luatex)

magicnum:       Access constants: group type, etc. (gen, *tex)
                LuaTeX is optional but will be used if present.

pdftexcmds:     Implement pdfTeX primitives in Lua (gen, pdftex, luatex, xetex)
                Very partial support under xetex.

lua_alt-getopt: Option parsing for scripts. (command-line, luatex)

Coming next?

lualatex-doc:   Overview of LuaLaTeX packages for user & dev (doc, luatex)

luafontenc:     Support for old font encodings w/o active chars (ltx, luatex)

luatex-def:     luatex.def file for graphics (ltx, luatex)

luaxetex:       emulation of XeTeX primitives (gen, luatex)
                eg: \XeTeXinterchartoks, could be useful for portability?

lualineno:      better implementation of lineno using luatex (ltx, luatex)

expl3 support?
